---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: From ES5 to ES6
date: 2015-03-28
labels:
  - Javascript
  - ES6
---

Confession time: I was an early user of CoffeeScript. I bought the first edition of Trevor Burnham’s book and applied it in an open source side project. Having done both Ruby and Python, it was really neat to see things like list comprehensions and guard clauses brought into a new language.

However, the other people I worked with (both professionally and in hackathons) used plain old Javascript and barely even knew CoffeeScript. This lead to a few complaints from coworkers and friends who were trying to modify my code. So, begrudgingly, I went back to writing plain old Javascript. But I still missed some aspects of CoffeeScript, like some of the shorthand syntax and destructuring assignment.

I heard on a podcast that ES6 was making its way into browsers and that they were porting over some of the features introduced in CoffeeScript. After playing around with ES6 using the Babel ES6 to ES5 transpiler and React Native, it definitely borrows from CoffeeScript but also includes many other awesome features. Most of all, I don’t feel guilty about using it, since it’ll eventually be in all browsers.

There’s a lot of stuff in ES6, so I just want to highlight a few things that I’ve used and what the equivalent ES5 Javascript would be. Note that these work in Babel’s REPL, but may not work on other runtimes like iojs. Check this compatibility table for more details.

## Template Strings

If you’re writing Javascript, you probably needed to dynamically insert values into a string at some point (like, for URL params or displaying objects from an API). The typical way to do this is to concatenate strings together. With ES6, we can create template strings that can accept dynamic values using backticks and ${}.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/keokilee/61db699057d4485c5ed8.js"></script>

## Arrow Functions

This was one of the bigger pieces of syntactic sugar ported over from CoffeeScript. Arrow functions allows you to create an anonymous function that is automatically bound to lexical this (similar to Function.prototype.bind(this)). If the function is a one liner, you can omit the curly braces and the return statement.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/keokilee/632600222471ab7e81bd.js"></script>

## Destructuring

I haven’t had any need to use destructuring in my application, but the React Native tutorial had some interesting uses for it. If you’re familiar with pattern matching, it’s very similar to that. Otherwise, it’s hard to explain without some examples.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/keokilee/61db699057d4485c5ed8.js"></script>

In the React Native tutorial, they use destructuring to pull out the components from the React Native module.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/keokilee/88cb74f7f199c28d10ba.js"></script>

## Enhanced Object Literals

Enhanced object literals add a little bit more functionality when creating objects. Thus far, I’ve only used as shorthand, but there are some additional properties that can be assigned. Check out Babel’s documentation for more detail.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/keokilee/66217737857073238cc5.js"></script>

Even though ES6 is not widely adopted yet, we can still use it today through the use of Babel and other transpilers. Since it’s going to be widely adopted anyway, there’s little reason not to learn it right away. Babel or any other ES6 transpiler should not break your existing code either, so you can add it in and slowly refactor to some of these new features. I highly encourage people to check it out!