---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: From The Beginning
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Computer Programming
  - Learning
---

I was born in California on 1998 - april 21. I moved to hawaii when I was about 1-2 years old. while I can't say I was born in Hawaii, I can at least say I was raised. Since I was young I loved computers, I would always be up at like 6 o'clock on the weekends just to play whatever the newest game I was into. In fact it was so bad my parent's made me ask before I got on the computer or I would be up at 5 o'clock or even earlier. That fascination and love for computers continues on even today.

While I might not be the 6 o'clock riser I was in elementary and middle school, I have never truly given up my computer. In middle school and high school I was part of the "Going Home Club". This was of course not really a club but it's what I did. In high school I did branch out and played basketball and volleyball for 2ish years but I would always when I had time jump on my computer. In my senior year I didn't really have a plan for what I was going to major in, and while talking to my counselor he suggested I do something related to computers. So I looked around online and found that there was a lot of things I could do.

In the end I wound up going for a B.S. in Computer Science and here I am today. I am still SUPER lost whenever someone talks about computer stuff,  but given enough time, research and A LOT of help I can normally figure out stuff. All things considered I still don't know what I am going to do with my degree but at least I know I have a lot of option and I am sure I'll be able to do something with my degree. Till then I'll just learn what I can and look into the stuff I want to do in the future.
