A Study in JavaScript

  JavaScript is a programming language based off of java but is used alongside HTML and CSS for Webpages making them interactive and providing online programs. All modern web browsers support it without the need for plugins. 
Considering how much of it is based off Java it was relatively easy for me to learn and the FreeCodeCamp helped a lot as well. I definitely haven’t learned everything there is in JavaScript but it is definitely a start at least. I think if I had not learned Java previously it would have taken me a lot longer and I wouldn’t have been able to understand all the stuff that I could do with what I learned but it is easier and more intuitive in most cases compared to some other coding languages I’ve seen or heard.

  I learned some really cool stuff just messing with the GitHub web page using inspect element and messing around with stuff like the background color or messing with gradient and the symbol colors. I wish there was a better way to check what the final design would look like without having to use inspect element but oh well. It took a little too long in my opinion for the actual page to update after I changed stuff and GitHub said it had finished building the page. Also rather than using having to look at the console whenever I print out stuff in JSFiddle I wish the result thing could be swapped out with the console and back. It could be worse though.

  I find the idea behind the practice and actual in class WOD’s are very helpful in just learning and training critical thinking as well as helping us to become more familiar with it. I think it could be improved though if there was an automatic timer attached to JSFiddle or some other way since it leaves room for error where the teacher has to cover like 20 students. I do enjoy this style of learning where in class is left mostly for the WOD’s and then just help troubleshooting the homework. It’s super stressful considering we only have 5-6 minutes to finish and trouble shoot a program even if its very simple.

  All in all I think this semester will be very enjoyable as long as I am able to keep up with all the homework and essays in the class or at least not too far behind, while keeping up with all the other classes.
